1) what is kubernetes work flow ?

Ans ->  The Kubernetes workflow is the series of steps and processes involved in deploying, managing, and scaling applications in a Kubernetes environment.
The workflow involves both the developer’s tasks (e.g., creating containers and writing Kubernetes configurations) and the operator’s tasks (e.g., managing the deployment and scaling of applications).

2) what is docker volume plugin ?

Ans -> A Docker Volume Plugin is an extension or a third-party integration that allows Docker to manage external storage, making it possible for Docker containers to interact with different types of storage.

3) what is Docker network and its type ?

Ans -> Docker Networking allows Docker containers to communicate with each other and with the outside world.

And THERE ARE 6 type OF NETWORK 

   1) BRIDGE 
   2) HOST 
   3) OVERLAY 
   4) MACVLAN 
   5) NONE 
   6) IPVLAN

4) which driver is used to created a docker container and apply to network ?

Ans -> when you create a container and apply it to a network, you use the BRIDGE NETWORK.

5) Purpose of docker compose ?

Ans -> Docker compose is used for creating or spin up multiple container application in a single yaml configuration file.

6)  How to create a docker image ?

Ans -> we write set of instruction to build a docker image using dockerfile.

7) What is docker image ?

Ans -> A Docker image is a read-only template containing instructions for creating a Docker container .

8) what is docker container ?

Ans -> A Docker container is a lightweight, standalone, and executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application, including code, runtime, system tools, libraries, and configuration files.

9) what is cloud methodology ?

Ans -> Cloud Methodology refers to the strategies, practices, and frameworks used to design, develop, deploy, and manage applications, services, or infrastructure on cloud platforms.

10) What is IAM ?

Ans -> IAM (Identity and Access Management) is a framework of policies, processes, and technologies that help organizations manage and control who can access specific resources in a system or network. IAM is critical for ensuring that only authorized users or entities have the appropriate permissions to access sensitive systems, applications, and data.

11) what is virtualization / virtualizer ?

Ans ->  Virtualization

  -----  Virtualization is a technology that allows you to create multiple virtual machine resources such server storage and os on a single physical machine.

 Serval types of virtualization

  1) APPLICATION
  2) DESKTOP
  3) STORAGE
  4) SERVER
  5) NETWORK

 VIRTULIZAR

 ------ A Virtualizer also known as hypervisor is software that creates and runs virtual machines on a single physical machine.

  Types of virtualizer

  1) Bare-Metal Hypervisor
  2) Hosted Hypervisor


12) how to check virtualizer in os ?

Ans -> lscpu

13 ) Difference between adduser and useradd ?

Ans ->  ADDUSER                                                                         USERADD


 -- High-level script, more user-friendly.                                          -- Low-level command, more flexible.
 -- Automatically creates the home directory.                                       -- Does not create home directory.
 -- when we create a user it Ask for password.                                      -- we have to create pasword seperate. / do not ask pasword while creating a user.

14) What is service types in aws ?

Ans ->  1) SAAS -> SOFTWARE AS A SERRVICE
        2) PASS -> PLATFORM AS A SERVICE
        3) IASS -> INFRASTRUCTURE AS A SERVICE

15) how many layer in laas ?

Ans ->  there are 3 types of layer in IAAS

     1) Compute Layer
     2) Storage Layer
     3) Networking Layer

  Layers in SaaS and PaaS in both same layer AWS

 1) Application Layer
 2) Platform Layer
 3) Infrastructure Layer

16) S3 lifecycle ?

Ans -> Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service) Lifecycle allows you to automate the objects between different storage classes, archive data, or delete objects after a specified time period. 

  Types of Storage Classes in S3

  1) S3 Standard
  2) S3 Standard-IA  (IA means Infrequent Access)
  3) S3 One Zone-IA
  4) S3 Glacier instant Retrival
  5) S3 Glacier Deep Archive
  6) S3 Intelligent-Tiering
  7) S3 Glacier flexibile retrival

17) Terraform lifecycle ?

Ans -> Terraform lifecycle is used to define specific behaviors for managing resources. It allows you to customize how Terraform handles certain aspects of resource management, such as creation, update, and deletion.

Terraform lifecycle management define how resource create, update, and destroyed in an infra structure as a code set up.

terraform life cycle flow 
 
  1) terraform init  ( is the first comand when we run a project. it initilize working directory )
  2) terraform plan
  3) terraform apply
  4) terraform destroy

18) Git lifecycle ?

Ans -> 1) git clone and create a repo 
2) make changes in repo 
3) commit the changes to git local repo 
4) pull the changes from remote repo and 
5) then push the changes to the remote repo


In Step – 1, We first clone any of the code residing in the remote repository to make our own local repository.
In Step-2 we edit the files that we have cloned in our local repository and make the necessary changes in it.
In Step-3 we commit our changes by first adding them to our staging area and committing them with a commit message.
In Step – 4 and Step-5 we first check whether there are any of the changes done in the remote repository by some other users and we first pull that changes.
If there are no changes we directly proceed with Step – 6 in which we push our changes to the remote repository and we are done with our work.


  git status: Shows the current state of the working directory and staging area.

  git add <file>: Stages a file, marking it for inclusion in the next commit.

  git commit -m "message": Commits the staged changes to the local repository.

  git push origin <branch>: Pushes your commits to a remote repository.

  git pull origin <branch>: Pulls changes from the remote repository to your local machine.


19) what is git ?

Ans -> Git is a distributed version control system that allows (developers) to track changes in their source code.

20) what is github ?

Ans -> GitHub is a web-based platform for version control It is one of the most popular platforms for software development and version control, allowing developers to store, manage the code.

 - github is a website that lets user store ,manage and share code.

20) what is use of git addd command ?

Ans -> git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area.

21) what is use of git addd commit ?

Ans -> The git commit command is used to save changes to the local Git repository.After the git add command to stage your changes.

22) difference between git clone and git init ?

Ans -> git clone will clone the new git repo in the local machine.

 git init is used to initialize a new Git repository in your local directory.

23) What is Jenkins ?

Ans -> Jenkins is an open-source automation server that is widely used for continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD). It helps automate the tasks involved in building, testing, and deploying software.

1) continuous delivery, where it can automatically deploy applications to production environments after successful builds and tests.

2) CI/CD a set of practice that automate software devlopment lifecycle.enable faster and more reliable software release.


24) what is shared directory in jenkins?

Ans -> In Jenkins, a shared directory refers to a directory that is accessible to multiple Jenkins jobs or builds, allowing them to share files or resources during the build process.

25) what is benifit of sudo command ?

Ans -> The sudo command is a powerful tool in operating systems that allows a permitted user to execute a command as the superuser (root) do. It is widely used for performing administrative tasks, such as installing or removing software etc .

26) Explain linux archiecture ?

Ans -> it consist of 4 layes

 hardware , kernal , shell , application


1 hardware -- hardware include all physical component such as cpu, memory, ram.

2)kernal -- The kernel is the brain of the operating system.kernal is the mediator between hardware and shell. 

(It handles tasks such as process management, memory management, hardware drivers, file systems, and networking.)

3) Shell -- shell provide an environment or interface in which we write the command.

The shell is a command-line interface that provides users with the ability to interact with the system using text-based commands.

4) Application -> application is a running program on top of operation system.


27) Explain docker Archiecture ?

Ans -> Docker Client: The Docker client is the interface used by the user to interact with Docker.The Docker client sends requests to the Docker Daemon and receives output from it.

Docker Daemon (Docker Engine): The Docker Daemon, also called the Docker Engine, is the core component that runs in the background. It is responsible for managing Docker containers, images, networks, and volumes.

Docker Images: Docker images are read-only templates used to create Docker containers.

Docker container : A container is a runtime instance of a Docker image Containers are lightweight, portable, and isolated environments where applications run.

Docker Registries: Docker registries are repositories where Docker images are stored. The most common registry is Docker Hub.

28) Difference between NACL and Security Group ?

Ans ->  Security Groups (SG):

   - Operates at the instance level.
   - It is primarily used to control inbound and outbound traffic to/from EC2 instances.
   - first layer of protection.

Network Access Control Lists (NACLs)

   - Operates at the subnet level.
   - NACLs control traffic entering or leaving a subnet within a VPC
   - second layer or additional layer of protection.

29) what is redirectories and its type ?

Ans ->  redirectories are used to write terminal output into file.

output generated from any command on terminal can transfer from one file to another.

   types of redirectories

 1) single
 2) double

single -> it overwrite the content of existing file.

double -> it append the redirected data in existing file.

30) file system system hierchy ?

Ans -> home root lib var svc bin run usr media mnt opt var tmp sbin sys dev boot lib lib64

31) file types in linux

Ans there are 7 types of file further divided into 2 types

1) user defined 2) system defined

in user defined 1) normal 2) link 3) directory

in system defined 1) character 2) socket 3) pipe 4) block


32) difference between hard link and soft link ?

Ans ->       hard link                                                                                       soft link

  -- A hard link is a reference to the physical file.                                      -- A soft link is a reference to another file.
  -- In hardlink same inode number                                                         -- in soft link different inode number.
  -- Data is not deleted until last link is removed.                                       -- Link is broken if the target file is deleted.
  -- Same content as the original file.                                                    -- Contains the path to the original file.

33) What is umask ?

Ans ->  to set the default permissions for newly created files and directories.

34) difference between conical id and account id ?


Account id - Uniquely identifies an AWS account. (2) 12-digit number

conical id - Uniquely identifies a user for S3 bucket/object. (2) Alphanumeric string

35) what is Arn ?

Ans -> ARN stands for Amazon Resource Name. It is a unique identifier used to reference AWS .making it easier to specify resources when configuring permissions and policies.

36 ) difference between ami and snapshot ?

Ans -> AMI - An AMI (Amazon Machine Image) is a pre-configured template used to launch new EC2 instances. It contains the operating system, application server, application software, and other configurations.


Snapshot - A Snapshot is a copy of an Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volume. Snapshots allow you to backup the data stored on EBS volumes and restore or replicate it later.

37) what is MFA ?

Ans -> MFA stands for Multi-Factor Authentication. It is an additional layer of security used to verify the identity of users accessing an application, system, or service.

38) what is load balance and its type ?

Ans -> load balancer manage incoming traffic across multiple servers, resources, or instances.it improve the availability, scalability.

types of load balancer 
 
 1) Application Load Balance
 2) Network Load Balancer 
 3) Classic Load Balancer
 4) Gateway load Balancer

 OSI model Layer 

 1) APPLICATION
 2) PRESENTATION
 3) SESSION
 4) TRANSPORT
 5) NETWORK
 6) DATALINK
 7) PHYSICAL
 
39) What is auto scaling and its types ?

Ans -> Auto Scaling is automatically adjusts the number of ec2 instance based on incoming traffic.


x

1) ec2 autoscaling
2) aws service autoscaling

40) explain archiecture of kubernetes ?

Ans -> Kubernetes architecture mainly have two component master node and working node -->in master node their are api server ,scheduler , controller manger and etcd .....and in working node their are kubelet , kube-proxy , pods and container eng




41) what is use of pom.xml

Ans -> providing all the necessary information about the project, such as its dependencies, plugins, and goals.


42) what is volume in docker ?

Ans -> In Docker, a Volume is a persistent storage mechanism that allows you to store data outside the container’s filesystem. Volumes are designed to be managed by Docker and can be shared and reused across multiple containers.

43) Routing policy and its type ?

Ans -> A Routing Policy is a set of rules that control how network traffic is routed across different paths within a network or between different networks.

types of routing policy

1) simple routing
2) weighted policy
3) geo location
4)latency based
5)failover roution

What is Docker?
Docker is an open-source containerization platform by which you can pack your application and all its dependencies into a standardized unit called a container.


full permission of file -666
full permission of Directory 777

umask for root = 022
umask for local 002

default permission for local user for file 664 
default permission for local user for directory 775

default permission for root user for file 644
default permission for root user for directory 755


44) different between w get and curl



